Essence of Linear Algebra: Publish Change of Basis (#411)
3b1b/3Blue1Brown.com: public/content/lessons/2016/change-of-basis/index.mdx

<Figure
    image="./figures/alternate-system/AlternativeVectorCoordinatesOriginal.light.svg" 
/>

To be a little more precise, her first basis vector, $\vec{\mathbf{b}}_1$, is something we would describe with coordinates $\left[\begin{array}{c} 2 \\ 1 \end{array}\right]$, and her second basis vector, $\vec{\mathbf{b}}_2$, is something we would describe as $\left[\begin{array}{c} -1 \\ 1 \end{array}\right]$.

<Figure
    image="./figures/alternate-system/AlternativeBasisVectorsSpecific.light.svg" 
/>

It's important to realize that from her perspective, in her system, those vectors have coordinates $\left[\begin{array}{c} 1 \\ 0 \end{array}\right]$ and $\left[\begin{array}{c} 0 \\ 1 \end{array}\right]$. They are what define the meaning of the coordinates $\left[\begin{array}{c} 1 \\ 0 \end{array}\right]$ and $\left[\begin{array}{c} 0 \\ 1 \end{array}\right]$ in her world.

<Figure
    image="./figures/alternate-system/AlternativeCoordinateSystem.light.svg" 
/>

So in effect, we are speaking different languages. We're all looking at the same vectors in space, but Jennifer uses different words and numbers to describe them.

## The grid

> One quick word on how we're representing things here: When animating 2d space, we typically use a square grid square grid. But this grid is just a construct, a way to visualize our coordinate system, and so it depends on our choice of basis vectors. Space itself has no intrinsic grid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One quick word on how we're representing things here: When illustrating 2d space, we typically use a square grid square grid. But this grid is just a construct, a way to visualize our coordinate system, so it depends on our choice of basis vectors. Space itself has no intrinsic grid.
```

\end{aligned}
$$

</Question>

## Translating transformations

So that, in a nutshell, is how to translate the description of individual vectors back and forth between coordinate systems:  the matrix whose columns represent Jennifer's basis vectors written in our coordinate system translates vectors written in her language to vectors written in our language.

<Figure
    image="./figures/translating-transformations/FromHersToOurs.light.svg" 
    width="600px"
/>

The inverse of this matrix does the opposite, translating vectors written in our language to vectors written in her language.

<Figure
    image="./figures/translating-transformations/FromOursToHers.light.svg" 
    width="600px"
/>

However, vectors aren't the only thing we describe using coordinates. For this next part, it's important that you're comfortable representing transformations with matrices, and that you know how matrix multiplication corresponds to composing successive transformations. Definitely pause and take a look at <LessonLink id="linear-transformations">chapter 3</LessonLink> and <LessonLink id="matrix-multiplication">chapter 4</LessonLink> if any of this feels uneasy.

### Follow Rotation

> Consider some linear transformation, like a $90$ degree counterclockwise rotation. When we represent this with a matrix, we follow where the basis vectors $\hat{\imath}$ and $\hat{\jmath}$ each go. $\hat{\imath}$ ends up at the spot with coordinates $\left[\begin{array}{c} 0 \\ 1 \end{array}\right]$, and $\hat{\jmath}$ ends up at the spot with coordinates $\left[\begin{array}{c} -1 \\ 0 \end{array}\right]$, so those coordinates become the columns of our matrix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider some linear transformation, like a $90$ degree counterclockwise rotation. In our coordinate system, we represent this with the matrix $\left[\begin{array}{c} 0 & -1 \\ 1 & 0 \end{array}\right]$. The first column tells us that $\hat{\imath}$ goes to $\left[\begin{array}{c} 0 \\ 1 \end{array}\right]$, and the second column tells us that $\hat{\jmath}$ goes to $\left[\begin{array}{c} -1 \\ 0 \end{array}\right]$.
```
